Adding SonarQube instructions (#330)
RoadieHQ/marketing-site: content/docs/integrations/sonarqube/index.md

---

## Introduction

In order to use the SonarQube plugin, Roadie needs an API token to communicate with SonarQube's APIs.

These are set within backstage at the following url:

```text
https://<tenant-name>.roadie.so/administration/settings/secrets
```

This page describes how to create and set up the API token.

## Steps

### Step 1: Create an API token

In order for the Backstage integration to work we must first generate our api key. These can be found from:
 * [Sonarcloud](https://sonarcloud.io/account/security) for your sonarcloud plugin
 * [SonarQube](https://docs.sonarqube.org/latest/user-guide/user-token/) for your sonarqube plugin

### Step 2: Base64 encode the credentials 
It is always important to base encode our tokens.

``` bash
# Note it is important to keep the trailing ':'
$ export SONARQUBE_AUTH=$(base64 <<< "<YOUR_SONARQUBE_TOKEN>:")
$ echo $SONARQUBE_AUTH
````

### Step 3: Store the credentials and SonarQube URL in Roadie
Visit `https://<tenant-name>.roadie.so/administration/settings/secrets` and enter the base64 encoded and prefixed token value from above into `SONARQUBE_AUTH`.

![Token in Roadie](./secret.png)

> ### Step 4: Set SonarQube proxy in the settings (Optional: ONLY FOR ONSIGHT CONFIGURATION)

Reviewer: I think you meant on-site or on-prem?

```suggestion
### Optional Step 4: Set SonarQube proxy in the settings

This step is only required when integrating with an on-prem SonarCube instance.
```

Author: I did 🤦  thanks

---
title: Configuring SonarQube
lastUpdated: '2021-07-28T21:00:00.0Z'
description: How to configure the SonarQube plugin on roadie.
---

## Introduction

In order to use the SonarQube plugin, Roadie needs an API token to communicate with SonarQube's APIs.

> These are set within backstage at the following url:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These are set within Backstage at the following url:
```

```text
https://<tenant-name>.roadie.so/administration/settings/secrets
```

This page describes how to create and set up the API token.

## Steps

### Step 1: Create an API token

In order for the backstage integration to work we must first generate our api key. These can be found from:
 * [Sonarcloud](https://sonarcloud.io/account/security) for your sonarcloud plugin
 * [SonarQube](https://docs.sonarqube.org/latest/user-guide/user-token/) for your sonarqube plugin

### Step 2: Base64 encode the credentials 
It is always important to base encode our tokens.

``` bash

> $ export SONARQUBE_AUTH=$(base64 <<< "<YOUR_SONARQUBE_TOKEN>:") # Note it is important to keep the trailing ':'

Reviewer: The comment disappears into horizontal scrolling. I would move it to the line above.

Author: Sounds good

$ echo $SONARQUBE_AUTH
````

### Step 3: Store the credentials and SonarQube URL in Roadie
Visit `https://<tenant-name>.roadie.so/administration/settings/secrets` and enter the base64 encoded and prefixed token value from above into `SONARQUBE_AUTH`.

### Step 4: Set SonarQube proxy in the settings

Visit `https://<tenant-name>.roadie.so/administration/settings/proxy` and create a new proxy.

> For non cloud based configurations:

Reviewer: The code samples are backwards.

Can we default the proxy for sonar cloud, and keep proxy creation for the on-premise support please? I see proxy creation as a last resort for users. For SaaS tools, we should know what the endpoints are, rather than expecting the users to configure them.

Author: Sure thing!

``` yaml
proxy:
  '/sonarqube':
    target: https://sonarcloud.io/api
    allowedMethods: ['GET']
    headers:
      Authorization: Basic ${SONARQUBE_AUTH}

```

> ![Non cloud based configuration](./non-cloud.png)

Reviewer: Screenshots should be light mode.

Author: Ah yes sorry
